---
title: 27 Reasons Why 27 Is The Best Number
description: In honor of my favorite number
date: "2022-02-05"
project: 'daily-writing'
published: true
category: 'pd'
twitter_post_url: https://twitter.com/27leaves/status/1489875356504969218
---

In 2006, The Simpsons released an episode "Girls Just Want to Have Sums". There is one special scene where Lisa is surrounded by mathematical sign characters like ≥, ∞, Σ and 27. She has to decide if she dresses up as a boy to get the better education. The signs all had some profound truths like the ≥ sign says "Do it Lisa! You'll be greater than or equal to the boys!". In the end, the 27 just shouts "_TWENTYSEVEN!_".  [Please watch it here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U2-7CqYFi64).

**When my brother and I watched this for the first time, we found it so hilarious that from that point on 27 became our favorite number.**  And not only that, we also infected our group of friends with that. Some of them did not even know the Simpsons scene but celebrated the number like us. It was everywhere. Number plates, House numbers, Busses, TV shows and movies. I'm sure that this was NOT related to the  [frequency bias](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frequency_illusion).  **On every occasion we pointed at things and shout "_TWENTYSEVEN!_"**  in the same tone as in the Simpsons episode. I can even remember really embarrassing situations like on quiet moments in a concert when one of us just shouts out this seemingly random thing.

For our group of friends, this number still has a very special place in our hearts and nowadays  **it just reminds me of the good times that we had with each other**. I was very excited to write about this today to honor our friendship and of course even more honor the 27.