---
title: "Self Development Junkies: Apply the 80/20 Rule for better Mental Health"
description: This principle helped me in many areas. Maybe it helps you, too!
date: "2022-01-25"
project: 'daily-writing'
published: true
category: 'pd'
twitter_post_url: https://twitter.com/27leaves/status/1481906131765243906
---

I guess at some point in your life you've crossed the Pareto principle (or how it's also called the 80/20 rule). It "states that  **for many outcomes, 80% of consequences come from 20% of causes**". Originally it stems from a study of the economist Vilfredo Pareto who discovered that 80% of the land in Italy was owned by 20% of the population. From this, he and other people found this to be true in many other areas.

For example in software development I can roughly plan 20% of the time for 80% of a feature that I want to implement. If I need to implement the 20% of edge cases and details to be perfect it needs 80% of the time.

I found that  **this principle can be applied in your daily life**  and it might make sense to ask yourself if 80% is enough.  **Do you really need to apply all the self development methods that you've learned?**  Do yoga, meditate, do intermittent fasting, be a minimalist, live vegan, drink no coffee… the list does not end if you want to follow every little thing you've read or heard on the internet.  **Try to focus on one or two things at a time that have the most impact.**

Not only is this absolutely sufficient, it will also ease your mind and will support your mental health. I found that everything should be followed with some moderation.  **Sometimes it's just time to be compassionate with yourself and see that less is more.**